In this video, I will introduce you to another type of variable called a list.
A list is a way of organizing a collection of information like multiple numbers, multiple strings,
or even a mix of different variable types.
Okay, so let me start by creating a list.
I'm going to call this variable name a list.
And notice I'm using brackets here.
So we have square brackets.
When you see square brackets in the definition of a variable you know that we are going to be working
with lists.
Okay.
So here I have looking at the output of a list.
You can see it's literally just the things that I specified over here.
Now what is important about a list is that the commas separate the different elements of the list.
And we can access individual elements using an operation called indexing.
So I am now going to index a specific number in this list.
So let's say we want to access the number five.
Maybe this is a parameter that we are using for one part of an analysis.
And so we need to access not the entire list, not all the elements in the list, but only this second
element in the list.
Okay.
So I'm going to write the number one in between the brackets here.
And that's going to give me huh.
That gave me a five.
That's curious right.
Because this is the first element in the list.
This is the second element in the list.
And yet the number one actually gave me this number five.
So what's going on here?
What's going on here is that Python is a zero based indexing language.
Okay.
I'll write that out because that's an important word zero based indexing.
And that means that Python actually starts counting at zero, not at one.
So the zeroth element or the first element, but it's an index position zero actually is four.
And that's what we see here.
So that means that this is index zero or position zero.
This is index one, index two and index three.
Okay.
So now we can write index three.
And that gives us the answer three.
Now this is a little confusing.
So do not be confused by this three.
And this three.
This three over here is a value in the list.
It's an entry in the list.
But it happens to have the index of position three.
So this is an index.
It corresponds to a position.
This is a number.
It's an element.
And they just happen to map onto each other.
And I can show you that here I'm going to say three whatever.
This is just arbitrary I just want some information here.
And then you can see that exactly this same code is still going to retrieve the item in position three,
Starting from zero.
So it's actually the fourth element.
Okay.
And then this, um, demonstration here also, uh, shows that, uh, a list can contain many different
types of variables.
So here I have integers.
We can also create some floating point numbers.
And here I have a string.
And they can all be mixed into a list.
So now what I'm going to do is recreate a list or define a new list.
Uh, also incorporating some concepts that I told you about a few videos ago with regards to commenting
and readability.
Okay, so let's create a new list.
And now I'm separating out the definition of this list onto multiple lines.
So one and let's say hello.
Of course you know these are just kind of arbitrary first second.
And I need a comma there.
And I'm going to call this parameter setting like this.
Okay, so now notice that I'm still defining a list.
It still contains four elements.
And each element is separated by a comma and it's spread across multiple lines.
And here I also want to show you.
So now I'm going to copy this paste this I'll call this new list two.
And now I'm just going to put these all on the same line.
Okay.
There are several important things going on inside several important Python concepts happening inside
this code cell.
One is that I've separated the definition of the list into multiple lines.
A second important thing is that I've shown you that a list can actually contain another list.
So here I'm creating a list.
You can see it's a list because it has the square brackets.
And this list is itself an element inside this list.
Okay.
And then finally, this is also demonstrating that Python doesn't care about the spaces and the returns,
the new line characters separating these lines because these two lists are identical.
So I will print out print new list one and I will print new list two.
And now you can see that these are the same.
Oh yeah I haven't defined this variable yet.
Uh let's see.
Parameter setting equals 48.3.
Whatever.
Okay.
So here I have one variable that I've defined.
And I'm using that variable to, uh input into this new list or define as a uh, as an element in new
list.
Uh, okay.
Sorry.
Just a little typo there.
Okay.
So you see that these two lists are identical to each other, even though they look different when they
are defined here.
Now why is this a useful way to define a list?
Well, we can do something like this.
I'm adding some spaces and now I'm putting a hashtag here and some info here.
You know, these are just arbitrary, meaningless variables that I'm creating for this little toy demo.
So I don't actually have a lot of information to show, but information here that helps, uh, make
your code be more readable.
Okay, so now you know, you can have comments off to the side that can tell you and also people who
are going to be reading your code and looking at your code, what this variable means, this element
of the list, what this element of the list means, what this means, and so on.
And this is much easier for us humans to understand compared to this list over here.
So the final thing that I want to demonstrate in this video is how to access just this word first in
here.
So we have new list that gives us all of this.
And now if we want to access this list here this is the third element.
So remember we need to index this as two right.
Because this is index zero index one.
And this entire element here which is itself a list is index two.
And now if we want to access this word first we can index that again.
Okay.
So we are indexing into the list and then indexing into the list contained inside a list.
So I hope you're not overwhelmed by lists.
You will use lists a lot.
They use very often in Python coding.
And also in this course they do take a little bit of practice to get used to and to get comfortable
with, but I promise you will understand them and be able to work with them with just a little bit more
practice.